Welcome back. How did you do on your
first quiz?
If you got most of the questions right,
great job.
If not, no worries it's all part of
learning.
We'll be here to help you check that
you've really got your head around these
concepts with regular quizzes like
this.
If you ever find a question tricky, go
back and review the videos and then try
the quiz again. You want to feel super
comfortable with what you've learned
before jumping into the next lesson.
Remember, take your time.
I will be here whenever you're ready to
move on.
Okay. Feeling good? Great.
Let us dive in. In this course, we will
use the Python programming language to
demonstrate basic programming concepts
and how to apply them to writing
scripts. We have mentioned that there
are a bunch of programming languages out
there. So why pick Python?
Well, we chose Python for a few
reasons.
First off, programming in Python
usually feels similar to using a human
language. This is because Python makes
it easy to express what we want to do
with syntax that's easy to read and
write.
Check out this example. There is a lot
to unpack here so don't worry if you
don't understand it right away, we'll
get into the nitty-gritty details later
in the course. But even if you've never
seen a line of code before, you might be
able to guess what this code does.
It defines a list with names of friends
and then creates a greeting for each
name in the list. Now it is your turn
to make friends with Python.
Try it out and see what happens.
Throughout this course, you will
execute Python code using your web
browser. We'll start with some small
coding exercises using code blocks just
like the one you experimented with.
Later on as you develop your skills,
you'll work on larger more complex
coding exercises using other tools.
Getting good at something takes a whole
lot of practice and programming and
Python is no different.
We recommend that you practice every
example we share in this course on your
own. If you do not have Python
installed on your machine, no worries,
you can still practice using an online
Python interpreter.
Check out the next reading for links to
the most popular Python interpreters
available online. Now I am sure you are
wondering what the heck is a Python
interpreter. In programming, an
interpreter is the program that reads
and executes code.
Remember how we said a computer program
is like a recipe with step-by-step
instructions? Well, if your recipe is
written in Python, the Python
interpreter is the program that reads
what is in the recipe and translates it
into instructions for your computer to
follow.
Eventually, you'll want to install
Python on your computer so you can run
it locally and experiment with it as
much as you like.
We'll guide you through how to install
Python in the upcoming course but you
don't have to have it installed to get
your first taste of Python.
You can practice with the quizzes we
provide and with the online interpreters
and code pads that we'll give you links
to in the next reading.
We'll provide a whole bunch of
exercises for you but feel free to come
up with your own and share them in the
discussion forums.
Feel free to get creative.
This is your chance to show off your
new skills.